---
layout: post
title:  "Week 3: Exploring the Engine"
date:   2023-06-11 20:00:00 -0500
categories: cardstock recycle enchere bugs
---
## Monday (6/5)
On Monday, Noah and I met with Dr. Goadrich once again. We viewed Noah's current progress in Ludii and then decided future goals for our research. I would begin my full work with the CardStock engine, which involved the language's grammar and changing its current simulation process. To begin, Dr. Goadrich assigned me to work on exporting a game's spread over time. This would help me become familiar with the location of important code as I worked on it in the future.

I also finished up the blog for the Enchère heuristics, which should be available to read in the near future.

## Tuesday (6/6)
On Tuesday, I met with Dr. Goadrich for a couple of reasons. The first was to have some proofreading for the blog I created for Enchère. The second, and more important, was to receive counsel on my current plan for exporting a game's spread.

After creating a solution to this issue, I started to test it only to receive mutliple blank files with no exported statistics. I was very confused about it until I later realized I had been testing in AI only games, which don't keep track of leads, choices, or spreads.

## Wednesday (6/7)
This day began with another meeting with Dr. Goadrich, where we played a card game using a Japanese deck, which was quite complicated in terms of rankings but also quite beautiful to look at.

After this, I made pull requests for exporting spread, then started editing the notebook file to display a nice graph to represent the spread over time.

## Thursday (6/8)
Once again, I met with Dr. Goadrich as I was struggling heavily with creating the graph from the interpreted data. Trying to find a way to do this took up most of my day, but I was still very lost by the end.

I spent the rest of my time moving code from my Enchère files over to a different blog to reflect how the other games were added to a blog.

## Friday (6/9) and Sunday (6/11)
I met with Dr. Goadrich on Friday morning where we looked at the RECYCLE grammar file and suggested some new updates to the language. We also played a card game called Schism. I ended up not doing too much work on Friday as I felt under the weather, but I did pick it back up on Sunday.

There, I put all of my current work into pull requests after fixing my fork of the repository, which was very behind. I also started creating a plan for fixing the AI player's determinization error. Lastly, I wrote and finished up this weekly blog.

Future Goals
- Fix AI determinization error
- Update CardStock grammar to v0.5